Add benchmark results to docs (#3244)
nest/nest-simulator: doc/htmldoc/benchmark_results.rst

.. _nest_benchmark_results:

NEST performance benchmarks
===========================

NEST performance is continuously monitored and improved across various network sizes.

> Here we show benchmarking results for NEST version 3.8 on Jureca-DC.

Reviewer: replace: "for this version of NEST on JURECA-DC [x]."
Jureca is discribed in the large scale instrument Journal of Juelich. Please include the reference in the usual citation format. Here is the paper., it also has a doi: https://jlsrf.org/index.php/lsf/article/view/182/pdf

Strong scaling experiment of the Microcircuit model [1]_
---------------------------------------------------------

.. grid:: 1 1 1 1

   .. grid-item::
       :columns: 10
       :class: sd-align-major-center

       .. image:: /static/img/mc_benchmark.png

.. grid:: 1 1 1 1

   .. grid-item::
       :columns: 10
       :class: sd-align-minor-center

>        * The model has ~80 000 neurons and ~300 million synapses

Reviewer: add: ", minimal delay 0.1ms"

>        * Increasing number of computing resources decrease simulation time

Reviewer: add bullet item:
- data averaged over 3 runs with different seeds, error bars indicate standard deviation

>        * The model runs faster than real time

Reviewer: add reference [Z] at end of sentence so that the concept of "real time" can be looked up and there is a link for further information: Here is the reference:
Kurth, A. C. ;  Senk, J.; Terhorst, D.; Finnerty, J.; Diesmann, M. (2022) Sub-realtime simulation of a neuronal network of natural density. Neuromorphic computing and engineering  2(2), 021001 (2022) 
you can add doi link

Strong scaling experiment of the Multi-area-model [2]_
-------------------------------------------------------

.. grid:: 1 1 1 1

 .. grid-item::
       :class: sd-align-major-center
       :columns: 10

       .. image:: /static/img/mam_benchmark.png

.. grid:: 1 1 1 1

 .. grid-item::
       :columns: 10
       :class: sd-align-minor-center

>        * The model has ~3.2 million neurons and ~10 billion synapses

Reviewer 2: The MAM has approx. 4.1 million neurons

>        * The model has ~3.2 million neurons and ~10 billion synapses

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
       * The model has ~4.1 million neurons and ~24 billion synapses
```

>        * The model has ~4.1 million neurons and ~24 billion synapses

Reviewer: add: ", minimal delay 0.1ms"
add new bullet item:

2 MPI processes per node, 64 threads per MPI process

>        * Steady decrease of run time with additional compute resources

Reviewer: add bullet item:
- data averaged over 3 runs with different seeds, error bars indicate standard deviation

Weak scaling experiment of the HPC benchmark model [3]_
--------------------------------------------------------

.. grid:: 1 1 1 1

   .. grid-item::
       :columns: 10
       :class: sd-align-major-center

       .. image:: /static/img/hpc_benchmark.png

.. grid:: 1 1 1 1

   .. grid-item::
       :columns: 10
       :class: sd-align-minor-center

>        * The size of network scales proportionally with the computational resources used

Reviewer: add: ", minimal delay 1.5ms"
add new bullet item:

2 MPI processes per node, 64 threads per MPI process

>        * Largest network size in this diagram: ~5.6 million neurons and ~61 billion synapses

Reviewer 2: HPC on 64 nodes should have size of 5.8 million neurons and 51 billion synapses

>        * Largest network size in this diagram: ~5.6 million neurons and ~61 billion synapses

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
       * Largest network size in this diagram: ~5.8 million neurons and ~65 billion synapses
```

>        * The figure shows that NEST can handle massive networks and simulate them efficiently

Reviewer: add bullet item:
- data averaged over 3 runs with different seeds, error bars indicate standard deviation

           Wall time versus number of nodes

           some more text

   .. grid-item::
       :columns:  7

       **Strong scaling experiment of the Microcircuit model** [1]_

       * The model has ~80 000 neurons and ~300 million synapses
       * Increasing number of computing resources decrease simulation time
       * The model runs faster than real time when using more than 2 nodes

   .. grid-item::
       :columns: 5
       :class: sd-align-major-center

       .. figure:: /static/img/replace_me.png

           Wall time versus number of nodes

   .. grid-item::
       :columns: 7

       **Strong scaling experiment of the Multi-area-model** [2]_

       * The model has ~3.2 million neurons and ~10 billion synapses
       * Steady decrease of run time with additional compute resources

   .. grid-item::
       :columns: 5
       :class: sd-align-major-center

       .. figure:: /static/img/replace_me.png

         Wall time versus number of nodes

   .. grid-item::
       :columns: 7

       **Weak scaling experiment of the HPC benchmark model** [3]_

       * The size of network scales proportionally with the computational resources used

>        * Largest network size: ~5.6 million neurons and ~61 billion synapses

Reviewer 3: Maybe more specifically
```suggestion
       * Largest network size in this diagram: ~5.6 million neurons and ~61 billion synapses
```
or `to date`, or `benchmarked`. This is not the "largest network size" in any general sense.
